In January I was invited back to Purolator to complete an 8-month term in the Full-Stack Developer role. This was a step up from the QA developer role and involved more responsibility, teamwork, and overall effort. But I felt I was ready for a challenge and so I jumped in head first. Nothing prepares you for the real world like dealing with real-world problems. I was exposed to industry software architecture such as micro-services, mobile development, continuous integration and deployment, and bug reproduction and resolution. I also got experience working with all kinds of technologies like Microsoft Azure, Flutter, Postgresql, and others — which I likely wouldn’t come across in school.

The Digital Lab is a new technology innovation department formed within Purolator that supports broader innovation projects and enables the integration of new business strategies into day-to-day operations. I was assigned to a project called DeliveryPro, a complete last-mile delivery software solution used by Purolator’s partners.

My very helpful and patient manager, Cathy, gave me a few starting tasks to work on with other members of the team. One of them was the Internationalization/Localization of our frontend mobile and web apps. This feature is important for the drivers using our system since, for many of them, English is not their mother tongue. I got to learn about working with UI app frameworks and libraries. I am not a fast learner so it was good to have experienced team members to guide me. We had these bi-weekly demo days where we showed off what we’ve been working on and it was great to get objective feedback from other people who are knowledgable but not directly on the same project. Towards the halfway point of my term, the office space my department was renting opened up again so I got direct face-to-face interaction with team members which I found exceptionally valuable.

Some other features I worked such as client searching, report production, and courier management were interesting because they were business requested features and I got to discuss with the actual clients what they wanted out of the system. I had the opportunity to touch all aspects of modern software development while working on these; changes involving our APIs, putting in new functionality to our backend micro-services, adding fields to our database tables, adding notification handlers to our frontend apps, implementing UI designs from our product design team. And that’s just what I can remember! Anyway, developing Delivery Pro opened my eyes to all the aspects that have to be managed and monitored for a modern software system to be functional.

The last event I participated in was a “ride-along”, where I spent a whole day with an actual Purolator Courier delivering parcels using their system. They start pretty early in the morning so I woke up earlier than I’m used to. I had been meaning to do this earlier in the term but there were always issues scheduling and communicating with the terminals. I was paired with a veteran courier and it was great to see all the techniques you pick up to save valuable minutes throughout the day. We did something like ~400 parcels that day all around the University of Guelph / Residential area. I had fun, it was a great experience, and I now have a greater appreciation for all the work that goes into the shipping business.

Thanks to Cathy, Praise, Jose, Thao, and Dariusz.

